Before we build and deploy our application I want to spend some words on the Google API key we're using
and all is about and want it to be atleast thereafter.
So here are logged in with that Google account which I used to create that Google API keys were using
on both the backend and the front end.
And I also made sure that I selected my project here which we created earlier in the course.
Now here under credentials you will see your API key and you'll see that API key I used in the front
and indexed html file and and as you tool folder the location shares fall on the back end before.
Now this key can be configured if you click on it you can configure where it can be used to which apps
can use it.
Now here it is open to everyone and maybe that is fine for you but you should be aware of the fact that
you can configure it you can for example control which applications running on which age to the PD refers
or IP addresses can use this key and if your key is getting used on any other location.
So on any average server it won't be able to communicate with this Google service and that might be
something you want to do to lock down your key QED IP address your app is getting hosted on in the end.
Now since we're using the key both on the front and as well as the back end if you're hosting your two
applications front and a back end on two different servers which is something you could do you want
to add all IP addresses of both the front end and the back end server otherwise if everything is getting
served from one single server adding that IP address is the right thing or you add the H to repeat referrals
here.
So there you enter the you or else on which your front end and back and will be hosted on.
So that is something you could consider.
I will pick non here but it is something you definitely want to be aware of.
You can also restrict your key down there you can restrict your key regarding the API as it can be used
for and in our example we're really only using the geo coding API and then the maps javascript API so
you might not need the our API and locking it down ensures that if someone else is somehow able to do
something with your key you don't want that at least it can't use it for any API so that is something
you could consider as well.
So in general just consider locking down your key to IP addresses to domains and or to specific services
that can be used.
Now maybe you also want to have two different keys one which is really locked down and one which is
relatively open because only you know it because you only use it in development and you never shared
with someone else.
Keep in mind that if your key is part of your fronted app everyone can see it so that already counts
as sharing.
But if you will only use it locally for development you could create a new API key which is relatively
open which you use during development and a different key for production which is locked down and to
simulators.
I will create a new API key here which is getting generated and now I could restrict this but I will
keep it open but now I have two different keys here.
Now let's say this is my development key the first one.
Well then I can grab this and go back to my code and use this here in the front end for my reactive
Google API key and also on the back end for my Google API key and I can insert this here and later I
will show you how to use different environment variables for production and then we could use the second
locked down key Now speaking of locking down let's also have a look at Mongo TB Atlas again.
You'll learn how you can configure it how you can control the database and network access.
And I want to come back to that.
Of course you could create a brand new cluster for your production project or at least you create a
new database in the collections here which you use for production which is what I will do here.
Merlin prod and endeavor I will add a place's collection.
And thereafter also a user's collection so that we have all these collections already prepared.
So let me quickly do this here.
Users
but besides this setup which absolutely makes sense.
But besides this setup you also might want to revisit your database and network access settings.
You might want to consider creating a new user specifically for production because you want to give
a different privileges or whatever you want.
It's not something I will do here but you could easily do that and then since we manage our user on
the back end here through environment variables.
Once you know how you can provide different values for development and for production you can easily
swap your credentials here not in this file but for these variables to use different users for development
and for production now for network access you want to ensure that of course this Mongo TB Atlas server
is not just open to your local IP address but that later once we deployed our application to a real
server you add the IP address of that server here.
Now we'll come back to that once we did deploy our application for now we can ignore this.
And with this we're generally set.
We added the environment variables.
Now let's learn how we build our ReACT application for production to optimize and minute fight code
to get a small code as possible how we can provide different values for production and how we can do
the same for the backend.